#Interstitial Textile Thinking
A line is defined by the two points and would be non existent without the points that define it. We can identify a position on that line without creating another point simply by referencing a distance from either point.  This logical position might be referred to as an "interstitial location".  It is not a new node as we are not adding another point, simply it is a distance defined by an interstitial relationship between the nodes and their edge.    

Textiles hold an interesting example in which we might explore the nature of interstitial thinking. The processes used to create textiles generates thousands and often millions of interstitial locations and relationships.  If we consider each yarn in a textile to be a line defined by it's beginning and end all of the intersections created by rectilinear weave are simply interstitial locations of a textile matrix.  Often they appear to be a single conformable plane to the human perception but under the microscope they demonstrate a more interstitial relationship defined by the type of weave selected.  In woven's these are generally at 90° angles and a cartesian system may be deployed to identify the location of each interstitial location.  When these textiles are cut and sewn into garments the nodes of each line are redefined yet the cartesian nature of the interstitial relationships remains.  The surface created is an Interstitial Surface (plane).  The boundries of this surface are the nodal points that define the outside of the surface.   The drape of the garment might be defined at the curving or bending of these relationships in space, whether around objects or affected by the force of gravity.  Conflicts in this system of conforming this interstitial relationship are expressed as tucks and folds as the textile negotiates its relationship in space.  

Yet more than half of the textiles worn today are not wovens but knits.  The interstitial relationships in a knit are much more complicated for a number of reasons.  In creating the classic weft knit structure each yarn is experiencing two interstitial forces on a micro scale that navigate the interstitially in an arced elliptical relationship. (an ellipse being a circle created with two centers).  These relationships dynamically move in conflicting ellipses that on a macro level form an interstitial relationship that we might describe as polar (and perhaps turtle) in nature.  This is complicated by the fact that the textile can be created by a single yarn moved into a complex number of interstitial relationships.  Let the nature of these relationships is often easily defined in mathematics by using cubic bezier curves.  Yet the definition of the interstitial surface is interesting because it can be created by using only two points, the begging and the end of the yarn. The drape of knitted interstitial relationships have a more conformable drape that adapts to shapes and gravity in a more uniform way that results in less tucks and folds.

In both systems no new node is created in the moment that the yarns interact To do so would be to join the yarns into a single yarn.  (To be discussed at a later point.) 

Perhaps textile thinking refers to idea of complex interstitial relationships where interstitial locations are identified,  yet new nodes are not created.   

Special thanks to Professor Lou Feijs and Oscar Tomico whose course on Digital Craftsmanship deeply inspired this idea.

Next Steps : Linear, Polar, Turtle, Planar, Weighted Intersitial Decimation, Phong
